README.md, before:

# HOM-i WhatsApp OTP, Lead Creation & Status API

A comprehensive FastAPI-based REST API for WhatsApp OTP verification, lead creation, and status tracking using Gupshup API with Supabase PostgreSQL storage and automatic fallback to local storage.

## Features

- ✅ **WhatsApp OTP Management**
  - Send OTP via WhatsApp using Gupshup API
  - Resend OTP functionality
  - Verify OTP with 3-minute expiry
  - Phone number validation and normalization
- ✅ **Lead Management**
  - Create leads with Basic Application API integration
  - Track lead status by mobile number or application ID
  - Comprehensive lead data validation
- ✅ **WhatsApp Notifications**
  - Lead creation confirmation messages
  - Lead status update notifications
  - Multiple template support for different use cases
- ✅ **WhatsApp Message Processing**
  - Intelligent message parsing for status requests
  - Automatic phone number extraction from Gupshup webhook payload
  - Natural language processing for status check requests
  - Support for various message formats and phone number formats
  - **Automatic webhook processing** for real-time message handling
  - **Gupshup JSON payload support** with proper sender information extraction
- ✅ **Storage & Infrastructure**
  - Supabase PostgreSQL for persistent storage
  - Automatic fallback to local storage
  - Thread-safe operations
  - Audit trails and data retention
- ✅ **API Features**
  - RESTful API design with proper HTTP status codes
  - Comprehensive error handling
  - Async/await support
  - Environment variable configuration
  - Debug endpoints for troubleshooting
- ✅ **Development & Deployment**
  - Modular project structure
  - Docker support with multi-stage builds
  - Docker Compose for easy deployment
  - Comprehensive testing support

## Project Structure

```
otpVerification/
├── app/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py                 # FastAPI application entry point
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── routes.py           # Main API router
│   │   └── endpoints/
│   │       ├── __init__.py
│   │       ├── otp.py          # OTP-related endpoints
│   │       ├── leads.py        # Lead management endpoints
│   │       ├── whatsapp.py     # WhatsApp message processing
│   │       ├── whatsapp_webhook.py # WhatsApp webhook (automatic)
│   │       └── health.py       # Health check endpoint
│   ├── config/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── settings.py         # Application configuration
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── schemas.py          # Pydantic models
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── database_service.py # Database operations
│   │   ├── whatsapp_service.py # WhatsApp API integration
│   │   └── basic_application_service.py # Basic Application API
│   └── utils/
│       ├── __init__.py
│       └── validators.py       # Data validation utilities
├── database_setup/             # Database setup scripts
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── Dockerfile                  # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml          # Development Docker setup
├── docker-compose.prod.yml     # Production Docker setup
├── env.example                 # Environment variables template
└── README.md                   # This file
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+ (for local development)
- Docker & Docker Compose (for containerized deployment)
- Gupshup WhatsApp API account
- Basic Application API credentials
- Supabase account and project (optional - falls back to local storage)

## Installation

### Option 1: Local Development

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd otpVerification
   ```

2. **Create and activate virtual environment**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   .\.venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
   source .venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   ```
   
   Edit `.env` file with your configuration:
   ```env
   # Server Configuration
   HOST=0.0.0.0
   PORT=5000
   DEBUG=True

   # Basic Application API Configuration
   BASIC_APPLICATION_API_URL=your_basic_api_url
   BASIC_APPLICATION_USER_ID=your_user_id
   BASIC_APPLICATION_API_KEY=your_api_key

   # Gupshup WhatsApp API Configuration
   GUPSHUP_API_KEY=your_gupshup_api_key
   GUPSHUP_SOURCE=your_source_number
   GUPSHUP_API_URL=https://api.gupshup.io/wa/api/v1/template/msg

   # WhatsApp Templates
   GUPSHUP_WHATSAPP_OTP_TEMPLATE_ID=your_otp_template_id
   GUPSHUP_WHATSAPP_OTP_SRC_NAME=source_name
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_CREATION_TEMPLATE_ID=your_lead_creation_template_id
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_CREATION_SRC_NAME=your_lead_creation_src_name
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_STATUS_TEMPLATE_ID=your_lead_status_template_id
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_STATUS_SRC_NAME=your_lead_status_src_name

   # Supabase Configuration (Optional - falls back to local storage if not configured)
   SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_project_url
   SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
   SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your_supabase_service_role_key

   # OTP Configuration
   OTP_EXPIRY_MINUTES=3
   ```

5. **Set up Supabase (Optional)**
   
   **a. Create a Supabase project:**
   - Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
   - Create a new project
   - Note down your project URL and API keys
   
   **b. Create the database tables:**
   - Go to your Supabase dashboard
   - Navigate to SQL Editor
   - Run the SQL scripts from `database_setup/` directory
   
   **c. Get your API keys:**
   - Go to Settings > API
   - Copy your Project URL, anon key, and service_role key

6. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   python -m app.main
   ```
   
   Or using uvicorn directly:
   ```bash
   uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5000 --reload
   ```

### Option 2: Docker Deployment

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd otpVerification
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

3. **Build and run with Docker Compose**

   **Development:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

   **Production:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up --build -d
   ```

4. **Or build and run with Docker directly**
   ```bash
   # Build the image
   docker build -t homi-api .

   # Run the container
   docker run -d \
     -p 5000:5000 \
     --env-file .env \
     homi-api
   ```

## Phone Number Validation & Normalization

The API automatically normalizes phone numbers to include the country code **91** (India) for WhatsApp services. The system handles various input formats:

### Supported Input Formats:
- **`917888888888`** - Already has country code (12 digits)
- **`788888888`** - Without country code (9 digits)
- **`+917888888888`** - With + prefix
- **`0788888888`** - With leading 0 (11 digits)
- **`888888888`** - 9 digits without country code
- **`88888888`** - 8 digits without country code
- **`91 788 888 8888`** - With spaces
- **`91-788-888-8888`** - With dashes

### Normalization Rules:
1. **Removes** spaces, dashes, parentheses, and other separators
2. **Removes** + prefix if present
3. **Adds** country code **91** if not present
4. **Removes** leading 0 if present (e.g., 0788888888 → +917888888888)
5. **Returns** normalized format: `+91XXXXXXXXXX`

### Validation Pattern:
- **Pattern**: `^\+91[1-9]\d{9,11}$`
- **Final format**: Must start with `+91` followed by 10-12 digits
- **Examples**:
  - ✅ `+917888888888` (valid)
  - ✅ `+918888888888` (valid)
  - ❌ `+910888888888` (starts with 0 after country code)
  - ❌ `+91888888888` (too short)
  - ❌ `+918888888888888` (too long)

**Note**: All phone numbers are automatically normalized to the `+91` format before being sent to WhatsApp services, regardless of the input format provided by the user.

## OTP Storage & Lifecycle

The API uses a sophisticated storage system with the following behavior:

### Storage Solutions
- **Primary**: Supabase PostgreSQL for persistent OTP storage
- **Fallback**: Local in-memory storage if Supabase is unavailable
- **Automatic expiry**: OTPs expire after 3 minutes (configurable)

### OTP Lifecycle
1. **Creation**: OTP is stored with `is_used = false` and expiry timestamp
2. **Verification**: OTP is marked as `is_used = true` (not deleted)
3. **Expiry**: Expired OTPs are automatically marked as `is_used = true`
4. **Cleanup**: Used and expired OTPs remain in database for audit trails

### Benefits of Marking as Used vs Deleting
- **Audit Trails**: Track OTP usage patterns and verification history
- **Analytics**: Analyze OTP success rates and user behavior
- **Security**: Maintain records for security investigations
- **Compliance**: Meet regulatory requirements for data retention
- **Debugging**: Easier troubleshooting of OTP-related issues

### Database Schema
```sql
CREATE TABLE otp_storage (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    phone_number VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
    otp VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL,
    created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW(),
    expires_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE NOT NULL,
    is_used BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE
);

CREATE TABLE leads (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    basic_application_id VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    customer_id VARCHAR(255),
    relation_id VARCHAR(255),
    first_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    last_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    mobile_number VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
    email VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    pan_number VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL,
    loan_type VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    loan_amount DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
    loan_tenure INTEGER NOT NULL,
    gender VARCHAR(10),
    dob DATE,
    pin_code VARCHAR(6) NOT NULL,
    basic_api_response JSONB,
    status VARCHAR(50) DEFAULT 'created',
    created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW()
);
```

## API Endpoints

### OTP Operations

#### 1. Send OTP
```http
POST /api_v1/otp_send
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone_number": "788888888"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "success": true,
    "message": "OTP sent successfully",
    "data": {
        "phone_number": "788888888",
        "otp": "123456"
    }
}
```

#### 2. Resend OTP
```http
POST /api_v1/otp_resend
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone_number": "788888888"
}
```

#### 3. Verify OTP
```http
POST /api_v1/otp_verify
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone_number": "788888888",
    "otp": "123456"
}
```

### Lead Management

#### 1. Create Lead
```http
POST /api_v1/lead_create
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "loan_type": "home_loan",
    "loan_amount": 5000000,
    "loan_tenure": 20,
    "pan_number": "ABCDE1234F",
    "first_name": "John",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "gender": "Male",
    "mobile_number": "788888888",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "dob": "15/06/1990",
    "pin_code": "400001"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "basic_application_id": "APP123456789",
    "message": "Lead Created Successfully."
}
```

#### 2. Get Lead Status
```http
POST /api_v1/lead_status
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "mobile_number": "788888888"
}
```

**Or:**
```http
POST /api_v1/lead_status
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "basic_application_id": "APP123456789"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "status": "Under Review",
    "message": "Your lead status is: Under Review"
}
```

#### 3. Process WhatsApp Message
```http
POST /api_v1/whatsapp/process_message
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "message": "I want to check my application status. My mobile number is 9876543210",
    "phone_number": "+919876543210"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "success": true,
    "message": "Your application status is: Under Review",
    "status": "Under Review",
    "application_id": "APP123456"
}
```

#### 4. WhatsApp Webhook (Automatic)
```http
POST /api_v1/whatsapp/webhook
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "app": "docdeck",
  "timestamp": 1718007189549,
  "version": 2,
  "type": "message",
  "payload": {
    "id": "ABEGkZUTIXZ0Ago6jWqOZm-Sz0WD",
    "source": "917888888888",
    "type": "text",
    "payload": {
      "text": "Check my application status"
    },
    "sender": {
      "phone": "917888888888",
      "name": "John Doe",
      "country_code": "91",
      "dial_code": "7888888888"
    }
  }
}
```

**Supported Message Formats:**
- "I want to check my application status"
- "Please check my loan status"
- "Application status check"
- "Track my application"
- "My application ID is APP123456"
- "Check status for mobile 9876543210"

### WhatsApp Message Storage

All WhatsApp messages (inbound and outbound) are automatically saved to the Supabase database for audit trails and analytics.

#### Message Storage Endpoints

**Get All Messages:**
```http
GET /api_v1/whatsapp/messages?limit=50&direction=inbound
```

**Get Message Statistics:**
```http
GET /api_v1/whatsapp/messages/stats
```

**Get Messages by Mobile Number:**
```http
GET /api_v1/whatsapp/messages/9876543210?limit=20
```

**Response Format:**
```json
{
    "success": true,
    "messages": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "mobile_number": "9876543210",
            "sender_name": "John Doe",
            "message_text": "Check my application status",
            "direction": "inbound",
            "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
            "processed": true,
            "processing_result": {
                "status": "success",
                "application_status": "Under Review"
            }
        }
    ],
    "count": 1
}
```

### Health Check

#### Health Status
```http
GET /api_v1/health
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "status": "healthy",
    "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
}
```

## Loan Type Mapping

The API supports various loan types with automatic mapping to Basic Application API codes:

| Input Loan Type | Mapped Code | Description |
|----------------|-------------|-------------|
| `home_loan`, `Home Loan`, `HOME LOAN` | `HL` | Home Loan |
| `loan_against_property`, `Loan Against Property`, `LAP` | `LAP` | Loan Against Property |
| `personal_loan` | `PL` | Personal Loan |
| `business_loan` | `BL` | Business Loan |
| `car_loan` | `CL` | Car Loan |
| `education_loan` | `EL` | Education Loan |

## Error Handling

The API returns appropriate HTTP status codes for different scenarios:

- **200**: Success
- **400**: Bad Request (invalid data, missing parameters)
- **404**: Not Found (OTP not found, lead not found)
- **409**: Conflict (OTP already sent)
- **422**: Validation Error (invalid format)
- **500**: Internal Server Error

### Error Response Format
```json
{
    "success": false,
    "message": "Error description",
    "data": {
        "phone_number": "788888888",
        "error": "Additional error details"
    }
}
```

## Database Setup

### WhatsApp Messages Table

To enable WhatsApp message storage, run the following SQL script in your Supabase SQL editor:

```sql
-- Run database_setup/whatsapp_messages_table.sql
```

This creates:
- `whatsapp_messages` table for storing all messages
- Indexes for better performance
- Functions for message statistics
- Views for recent messages

### Required Tables

1. **OTP Storage**: `database_setup/supabase_setup.sql`
2. **Leads Management**: `database_setup/supabase_setup.sql`
3. **WhatsApp Messages**: `database_setup/whatsapp_messages_table.sql`

## Testing

### Test OTP Operations
```bash
# Test OTP send
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/otp_send" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"phone_number": "788888888"}'

# Test OTP verify
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/otp_verify" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"phone_number": "788888888", "otp": "123456"}'
```

### Test Lead Operations
```bash
# Test lead creation
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/lead_create" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "loan_type": "home_loan",
    "loan_amount": 5000000,
    "loan_tenure": 20,
    "pan_number": "ABCDE1234F",
    "first_name": "John",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "mobile_number": "788888888",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "dob": "15/06/1990",
    "pin_code": "400001"
  }'

# Test lead status
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/lead_status" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"mobile_number": "788888888"}'

# Test WhatsApp message processing
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/whatsapp/process_message" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "message": "I want to check my application status. My mobile number is 9876543210",
    "phone_number": "+919876543210"
  }'
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Supabase Connection Error**
   ```
   Error: 'str' object has no attribute 'headers'
   ```
   **Solution**: Check your Supabase credentials in `.env` file

2. **Supabase Permission Error**
   ```
   Error: permission denied for table otp_storage
   ```
   **Solution**: Run the database setup scripts and grant proper permissions

3. **WhatsApp API Error**
   ```
   Error: Failed to send OTP. Status: 400
   ```
   **Solution**: Verify Gupshup API credentials and template configuration

4. **Basic Application API Error**
   ```
   Error: Failed to create lead in Basic Application API
   ```
   **Solution**: Check Basic Application API credentials and URL

### Debug Endpoints

- **Health Check**: `GET /api_v1/health`
- **WhatsApp Service**: Check logs for WhatsApp service initialization
- **Database Service**: Check logs for database connection status

### Environment Variables Checklist

Ensure all required environment variables are set:

- [ ] `BASIC_APPLICATION_API_URL`
- [ ] `BASIC_APPLICATION_USER_ID`
- [ ] `BASIC_APPLICATION_API_KEY`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_API_KEY`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_SOURCE`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_WHATSAPP_OTP_TEMPLATE_ID`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_LEAD_CREATION_TEMPLATE_ID`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_LEAD_STATUS_TEMPLATE_ID`
- [ ] `SUPABASE_URL` (optional)
- [ ] `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` (optional)

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Support

For support and questions:
- Create an issue in the repository
- Contact the development team
- Check the troubleshooting section above

Commit message:

updated the message saving to database based on mobile number

README.md, after:

# HOM-i WhatsApp OTP, Lead Creation & Status API

A comprehensive FastAPI-based REST API for WhatsApp OTP verification, lead creation, and status tracking using Gupshup API with Supabase PostgreSQL storage and automatic fallback to local storage.

## Features

- ✅ **WhatsApp OTP Management**
  - Send OTP via WhatsApp using Gupshup API
  - Resend OTP functionality
  - Verify OTP with 3-minute expiry
  - Phone number validation and normalization
- ✅ **Lead Management**
  - Create leads with Basic Application API integration
  - Track lead status by mobile number or application ID
  - Comprehensive lead data validation
- ✅ **WhatsApp Notifications**
  - Lead creation confirmation messages
  - Lead status update notifications
  - Multiple template support for different use cases
- ✅ **WhatsApp Message Processing**
  - Intelligent message parsing for status requests
  - Automatic phone number extraction from Gupshup webhook payload
  - Natural language processing for status check requests
  - Support for various message formats and phone number formats
  - **Automatic webhook processing** for real-time message handling
  - **Gupshup JSON payload support** with proper sender information extraction
- ✅ **Storage & Infrastructure**
  - Supabase PostgreSQL for persistent storage
  - Automatic fallback to local storage
  - Thread-safe operations
  - Audit trails and data retention
- ✅ **API Features**
  - RESTful API design with proper HTTP status codes
  - Comprehensive error handling
  - Async/await support
  - Environment variable configuration
  - Debug endpoints for troubleshooting
- ✅ **Development & Deployment**
  - Modular project structure
  - Docker support with multi-stage builds
  - Docker Compose for easy deployment
  - Comprehensive testing support

## Project Structure

```
otpVerification/
├── app/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py                 # FastAPI application entry point
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── routes.py           # Main API router
│   │   └── endpoints/
│   │       ├── __init__.py
│   │       ├── otp.py          # OTP-related endpoints
│   │       ├── leads.py        # Lead management endpoints
│   │       ├── whatsapp.py     # WhatsApp message processing
│   │       ├── whatsapp_webhook.py # WhatsApp webhook (automatic)
│   │       └── health.py       # Health check endpoint
│   ├── config/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── settings.py         # Application configuration
│   ├── models/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── schemas.py          # Pydantic models
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── database_service.py # Database operations
│   │   ├── whatsapp_service.py # WhatsApp API integration
│   │   └── basic_application_service.py # Basic Application API
│   └── utils/
│       ├── __init__.py
│       └── validators.py       # Data validation utilities
├── database_setup/             # Database setup scripts
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── Dockerfile                  # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml          # Development Docker setup
├── docker-compose.prod.yml     # Production Docker setup
├── env.example                 # Environment variables template
└── README.md                   # This file
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+ (for local development)
- Docker & Docker Compose (for containerized deployment)
- Gupshup WhatsApp API account
- Basic Application API credentials
- Supabase account and project (optional - falls back to local storage)

## Installation

### Option 1: Local Development

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd otpVerification
   ```

2. **Create and activate virtual environment**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   .\.venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
   source .venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   ```
   
   Edit `.env` file with your configuration:
   ```env
   # Server Configuration
   HOST=0.0.0.0
   PORT=5000
   DEBUG=True

   # Basic Application API Configuration
   BASIC_APPLICATION_API_URL=your_basic_api_url
   BASIC_APPLICATION_USER_ID=your_user_id
   BASIC_APPLICATION_API_KEY=your_api_key

   # Gupshup WhatsApp API Configuration
   GUPSHUP_API_KEY=your_gupshup_api_key
   GUPSHUP_SOURCE=your_source_number
   GUPSHUP_API_URL=https://api.gupshup.io/wa/api/v1/template/msg

   # WhatsApp Templates
   GUPSHUP_WHATSAPP_OTP_TEMPLATE_ID=your_otp_template_id
   GUPSHUP_WHATSAPP_OTP_SRC_NAME=source_name
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_CREATION_TEMPLATE_ID=your_lead_creation_template_id
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_CREATION_SRC_NAME=your_lead_creation_src_name
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_STATUS_TEMPLATE_ID=your_lead_status_template_id
   GUPSHUP_LEAD_STATUS_SRC_NAME=your_lead_status_src_name

   # Supabase Configuration (Optional - falls back to local storage if not configured)
   SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_project_url
   SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
   SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your_supabase_service_role_key

   # OTP Configuration
   OTP_EXPIRY_MINUTES=3
   ```

5. **Set up Supabase (Optional)**
   
   **a. Create a Supabase project:**
   - Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
   - Create a new project
   - Note down your project URL and API keys
   
   **b. Create the database tables:**
   - Go to your Supabase dashboard
   - Navigate to SQL Editor
   - Run the SQL scripts from `database_setup/` directory
   
   **c. Get your API keys:**
   - Go to Settings > API
   - Copy your Project URL, anon key, and service_role key

6. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   python -m app.main
   ```
   
   Or using uvicorn directly:
   ```bash
   uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5000 --reload
   ```

### Option 2: Docker Deployment

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd otpVerification
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

3. **Build and run with Docker Compose**

   **Development:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

   **Production:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up --build -d
   ```

4. **Or build and run with Docker directly**
   ```bash
   # Build the image
   docker build -t homi-api .

   # Run the container
   docker run -d \
     -p 5000:5000 \
     --env-file .env \
     homi-api
   ```

## Phone Number Validation & Normalization

The API automatically normalizes phone numbers to include the country code **91** (India) for WhatsApp services. The system handles various input formats:

### Supported Input Formats:
- **`917888888888`** - Already has country code (12 digits)
- **`788888888`** - Without country code (9 digits)
- **`+917888888888`** - With + prefix
- **`0788888888`** - With leading 0 (11 digits)
- **`888888888`** - 9 digits without country code
- **`88888888`** - 8 digits without country code
- **`91 788 888 8888`** - With spaces
- **`91-788-888-8888`** - With dashes

### Normalization Rules:
1. **Removes** spaces, dashes, parentheses, and other separators
2. **Removes** + prefix if present
3. **Adds** country code **91** if not present
4. **Removes** leading 0 if present (e.g., 0788888888 → +917888888888)
5. **Returns** normalized format: `+91XXXXXXXXXX`

### Validation Pattern:
- **Pattern**: `^\+91[1-9]\d{9,11}$`
- **Final format**: Must start with `+91` followed by 10-12 digits
- **Examples**:
  - ✅ `+917888888888` (valid)
  - ✅ `+918888888888` (valid)
  - ❌ `+910888888888` (starts with 0 after country code)
  - ❌ `+91888888888` (too short)
  - ❌ `+918888888888888` (too long)

**Note**: All phone numbers are automatically normalized to the `+91` format before being sent to WhatsApp services, regardless of the input format provided by the user.

## OTP Storage & Lifecycle

The API uses a sophisticated storage system with the following behavior:

### Storage Solutions
- **Primary**: Supabase PostgreSQL for persistent OTP storage
- **Fallback**: Local in-memory storage if Supabase is unavailable
- **Automatic expiry**: OTPs expire after 3 minutes (configurable)

### OTP Lifecycle
1. **Creation**: OTP is stored with `is_used = false` and expiry timestamp
2. **Verification**: OTP is marked as `is_used = true` (not deleted)
3. **Expiry**: Expired OTPs are automatically marked as `is_used = true`
4. **Cleanup**: Used and expired OTPs remain in database for audit trails

### Benefits of Marking as Used vs Deleting
- **Audit Trails**: Track OTP usage patterns and verification history
- **Analytics**: Analyze OTP success rates and user behavior
- **Security**: Maintain records for security investigations
- **Compliance**: Meet regulatory requirements for data retention
- **Debugging**: Easier troubleshooting of OTP-related issues

### Database Schema
```sql
CREATE TABLE otp_storage (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    phone_number VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
    otp VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL,
    created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW(),
    expires_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE NOT NULL,
    is_used BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE
);

CREATE TABLE leads (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    basic_application_id VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    customer_id VARCHAR(255),
    relation_id VARCHAR(255),
    first_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    last_name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    mobile_number VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
    email VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    pan_number VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL,
    loan_type VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    loan_amount DECIMAL(15,2) NOT NULL,
    loan_tenure INTEGER NOT NULL,
    gender VARCHAR(10),
    dob DATE,
    pin_code VARCHAR(6) NOT NULL,
    basic_api_response JSONB,
    status VARCHAR(50) DEFAULT 'created',
    created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT NOW()
);
```

## API Endpoints

### OTP Operations

#### 1. Send OTP
```http
POST /api_v1/otp_send
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone_number": "788888888"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "success": true,
    "message": "OTP sent successfully",
    "data": {
        "phone_number": "788888888",
        "otp": "123456"
    }
}
```

#### 2. Resend OTP
```http
POST /api_v1/otp_resend
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone_number": "788888888"
}
```

#### 3. Verify OTP
```http
POST /api_v1/otp_verify
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "phone_number": "788888888",
    "otp": "123456"
}
```

### Lead Management

#### 1. Create Lead
```http
POST /api_v1/lead_create
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "loan_type": "home_loan",
    "loan_amount": 5000000,
    "loan_tenure": 20,
    "pan_number": "ABCDE1234F",
    "first_name": "John",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "gender": "Male",
    "mobile_number": "788888888",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "dob": "15/06/1990",
    "pin_code": "400001"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "basic_application_id": "APP123456789",
    "message": "Lead Created Successfully."
}
```

#### 2. Get Lead Status
```http
POST /api_v1/lead_status
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "mobile_number": "788888888"
}
```

**Or:**
```http
POST /api_v1/lead_status
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "basic_application_id": "APP123456789"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "status": "Under Review",
    "message": "Your lead status is: Under Review"
}
```

#### 3. Process WhatsApp Message
```http
POST /api_v1/whatsapp/process_message
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "message": "I want to check my application status. My mobile number is 9876543210",
    "phone_number": "+919876543210"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "success": true,
    "message": "Your application status is: Under Review",
    "status": "Under Review",
    "application_id": "APP123456"
}
```

#### 4. WhatsApp Webhook (Automatic)
```http
POST /api_v1/whatsapp/webhook
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "app": "docdeck",
  "timestamp": 1718007189549,
  "version": 2,
  "type": "message",
  "payload": {
    "id": "ABEGkZUTIXZ0Ago6jWqOZm-Sz0WD",
    "source": "917888888888",
    "type": "text",
    "payload": {
      "text": "Check my application status"
    },
    "sender": {
      "phone": "917888888888",
      "name": "John Doe",
      "country_code": "91",
      "dial_code": "7888888888"
    }
  }
}
```

**Supported Message Formats:**
- "I want to check my application status"
- "Please check my loan status"
- "Application status check"
- "Track my application"
- "My application ID is APP123456"
- "Check status for mobile 9876543210"

### WhatsApp Message Storage

All WhatsApp messages with valid mobile numbers are automatically saved to the Supabase database for audit trails and analytics. Messages with None or empty mobile numbers are skipped to prevent invalid data storage.

#### Message Storage Endpoints

**Get All Messages:**
```http
GET /api_v1/whatsapp/messages?limit=50&direction=inbound
```

**Get Message Statistics:**
```http
GET /api_v1/whatsapp/messages/stats
```

**Get Messages by Mobile Number:**
```http
GET /api_v1/whatsapp/messages/9876543210?limit=20
```

**Response Format:**
```json
{
    "success": true,
    "messages": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "mobile_number": "9876543210",
            "sender_name": "John Doe",
            "message_text": "Check my application status",
            "direction": "inbound",
            "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
            "processed": true,
            "processing_result": {
                "status": "success",
                "application_status": "Under Review"
            }
        }
    ],
    "count": 1
}
```

### Health Check

#### Health Status
```http
GET /api_v1/health
```

**Response:**
```json
{
    "status": "healthy",
    "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
}
```

## Loan Type Mapping

The API supports various loan types with automatic mapping to Basic Application API codes:

| Input Loan Type | Mapped Code | Description |
|----------------|-------------|-------------|
| `home_loan`, `Home Loan`, `HOME LOAN` | `HL` | Home Loan |
| `loan_against_property`, `Loan Against Property`, `LAP` | `LAP` | Loan Against Property |
| `personal_loan` | `PL` | Personal Loan |
| `business_loan` | `BL` | Business Loan |
| `car_loan` | `CL` | Car Loan |
| `education_loan` | `EL` | Education Loan |

## Error Handling

The API returns appropriate HTTP status codes for different scenarios:

- **200**: Success
- **400**: Bad Request (invalid data, missing parameters)
- **404**: Not Found (OTP not found, lead not found)
- **409**: Conflict (OTP already sent)
- **422**: Validation Error (invalid format)
- **500**: Internal Server Error

### Error Response Format
```json
{
    "success": false,
    "message": "Error description",
    "data": {
        "phone_number": "788888888",
        "error": "Additional error details"
    }
}
```

## Database Setup

### WhatsApp Messages Table

To enable WhatsApp message storage, run the following SQL script in your Supabase SQL editor:

```sql
-- Run database_setup/whatsapp_messages_table.sql
```

This creates:
- `whatsapp_messages` table for storing all messages
- Indexes for better performance
- Functions for message statistics
- Views for recent messages

### Required Tables

1. **OTP Storage**: `database_setup/supabase_setup.sql`
2. **Leads Management**: `database_setup/supabase_setup.sql`
3. **WhatsApp Messages**: `database_setup/whatsapp_messages_table.sql`

## Testing

### Test OTP Operations
```bash
# Test OTP send
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/otp_send" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"phone_number": "788888888"}'

# Test OTP verify
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/otp_verify" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"phone_number": "788888888", "otp": "123456"}'
```

### Test Lead Operations
```bash
# Test lead creation
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/lead_create" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "loan_type": "home_loan",
    "loan_amount": 5000000,
    "loan_tenure": 20,
    "pan_number": "ABCDE1234F",
    "first_name": "John",
    "last_name": "Doe",
    "mobile_number": "788888888",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com",
    "dob": "15/06/1990",
    "pin_code": "400001"
  }'

# Test lead status
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/lead_status" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"mobile_number": "788888888"}'

# Test WhatsApp message processing
curl -X POST "http://localhost:5000/api_v1/whatsapp/process_message" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "message": "I want to check my application status. My mobile number is 9876543210",
    "phone_number": "+919876543210"
  }'
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Supabase Connection Error**
   ```
   Error: 'str' object has no attribute 'headers'
   ```
   **Solution**: Check your Supabase credentials in `.env` file

2. **Supabase Permission Error**
   ```
   Error: permission denied for table otp_storage
   ```
   **Solution**: Run the database setup scripts and grant proper permissions

3. **WhatsApp API Error**
   ```
   Error: Failed to send OTP. Status: 400
   ```
   **Solution**: Verify Gupshup API credentials and template configuration

4. **Basic Application API Error**
   ```
   Error: Failed to create lead in Basic Application API
   ```
   **Solution**: Check Basic Application API credentials and URL

### Debug Endpoints

- **Health Check**: `GET /api_v1/health`
- **WhatsApp Service**: Check logs for WhatsApp service initialization
- **Database Service**: Check logs for database connection status

### Environment Variables Checklist

Ensure all required environment variables are set:

- [ ] `BASIC_APPLICATION_API_URL`
- [ ] `BASIC_APPLICATION_USER_ID`
- [ ] `BASIC_APPLICATION_API_KEY`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_API_KEY`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_SOURCE`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_WHATSAPP_OTP_TEMPLATE_ID`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_LEAD_CREATION_TEMPLATE_ID`
- [ ] `GUPSHUP_LEAD_STATUS_TEMPLATE_ID`
- [ ] `SUPABASE_URL` (optional)
- [ ] `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` (optional)

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Support

For support and questions:
- Create an issue in the repository
- Contact the development team
- Check the troubleshooting section above
